---
layout: post
author: M. N. H. Shazon, H. M. Ahmed, Z. Tasnim, M. A. Rahman & N. A. Masood
title: Frequency Response and Its Improvement Using BESS in a Low Inertia Power System
image: 
place: 2019 IEEE Region 10 Conference (TENCON 2019) (pp. 1029-1034). IEEE
---

**Abstract:**<br>
The purpose of this paper is to explore the role of
Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) in improving the
frequency response of a low inertia power system. For the recent
years, prolific amount of renewable energy resources that include
wind and photovoltaic (PV) sources have been introduced in
South Australian power system. These wind generators are
mostly variable speed machines, hence they neither have inertia
response nor can they perform governor like response following
a contingency. The demand in South Australia can be
significantly catered utilizing renewable sources and considerable
power import from the adjacent state Victoria. Therefore, the
number of synchronous generators in the South Australian
network can be small. In such situations, the frequency response
following a contingency can be concerning and the network may
undergo substantial under frequency load shedding. To
overcome this challenge, this paper proposes a frequency
responsive BESS model to improve the frequency response of a
low inertia power system that resembles the South Australian
network. The network is investigated under various operating
conditions to explore the performance of BESS regarding
frequency response enhancement.
